## Abstract {#abstract}

Municipal wastewater is one of the principal sources of contaminants delivered into urban aquatic environments. 
These contaminants include endocrine disrupting compounds (EDCs), which can perturb diverse biological processes by disrupting normal endocrine functions even at the levels found in treated wastewater effluents. 
Current wastewater regulations, testing methodologies and management strategies often do not take EDCs into account, further, even when testing strategies are in place, EDCs are often biologically active below detection thresholds. 
The effect of EDCs in seen in a North American Xenopus  (bullfrog)  metamorphosis model, where transformation of an aquatic tadpole into a juvenile frog can be disrupted by their presence. 
Although there is the potential to use amphibian metamorphosis as an assay for EDC presence, current methodologies rely on a 21-day morphological assessment. 
However, the use of microbiome profiling is quickly emerging as a novel tool for understanding environmental toxicants and their impact with a lower detection threshold than current chemical tests. 
Here, we used 16S rRNA sequencing to profile the skin microbiome of the bullfrog at different developmental stages as well as upon exposure to thyroid hormones T3 and T4 to investigate if the bullfrog skin microbiome can be used as an indicator of environmental EDC contamination. 
We found that T3 exposure but not T4 exposure had an effect on tadpole skin microbiomes. 
We found that the bacterial communities on the skin of older frogs had significantly lower alpha diversity and higher abundance of a Luteolibacter sp. than found on younger frogs. 
The thyroid hormone T4, which strongly affects frog development and metamorphosis, had a significant effect on the skin microbiome. 
These results suggest that ECD-contaminated waste water exposure can have minimal direct effects on the Lithobates catesbeianus skin microbiome, unless the EDC has a strong effect on the host animal, in this case with metamorphic progress. 
Taken together with the differences observed in the microbiome with metamorphic stage, these results demonstrate that the Lithobates catesbeianus skin microbiome is predominantly determined by the host animal. 
This suggests that the skin microbiome may be a suitable tool to monitor EDCs at levels that are biologically consequential without a tendency for false positives. 

## Keywords
word1, word2, word3
