## Introduction {#main}

Bullfrog developmental models are very sensitive to exogenous T3, as well as their sex ratios are affected by endocrine disruption in the environment. 
Therefore bullfrogs’ skin can act as a sensitive model to study effects of hormones and disruptors on the environment. 
Frog metamorphosis represents the most accessible and striking example of TH action. 
This process is entirely dependent upon TH and completion of this developmental period requires a rise in TH levels from zero baseline levels found in the premetamorphic tadpole. 
TH levels naturally increase from premetamorphosis through prometamorphosis to reach maximal levels at metamorphic climax at which time rapid, overt remodeling of the tadpole into a froglet occurs. 
Virtually all tissues are targets for TH action, yet the end result includes diverse responses e.g. complete tail resorption, liver reprogramming, brain remodeling, and limb growth. 
These changes are precociously induced in the premetamorphic tadpole by exogenous administration of T3 or T4

Our frog species, Ranidae frogs
The current OECD 21 day assay evaluates the whole organismal response with assessment of external morphological criteria at days 7 and 21 and qualitative assessment of thyroid gland morphology at day 21. It relies upon highly inbred laboratory strains of Xenopus species that are not relevant to the North American environment.

Previous work used RNA-Seq and Kraken filtering to demonstrate that Ranavirus infection resulted in a differential abundance of bacterial transcripts from specific bacterial communities.
I have applied the same Kraken filtering techniques to RNA-Seq datasets from tail fin (TF) and olfactory epithelium (OE) tissues from pre-metamorphic bullfrog tadpoles exposed to either E2, T4, or T3.
This data will be paired with traditional 16S rRNA sequencing methods to examine the effects these exposures have on the Rana catesbeiana bacterial and viral communities.

The skin microbiome of land and marine animals contains highly diverse microbial communities that is characteristic of it's host [@doi:10.1038/s41598-017-15220-z].
As microbiome studies become popular, research had shown that the skin micobiota changes between host life stages, environmental conditions, health state, and geographical locations [@doi:10.1111/mec.12899;@doi:10.1038/ncomms11833;@doi:10.1093/femsec/fiw109]. 
Often, the skin is the first barrier to contaminants and support antagonistic effects against stressors [@doi:10.1038/ncomms2441;@doi:10.1016/j.jaci.2016.09.019;@doi:10.1038/jid.2009.243]. 
While the skin microbiome of marine and land mammals has been of interest recent years [@doi:10.1186/s40168-019-0694-6], very little is known about the skin microbiota of amphibians, especially the effects of natural metamorphosis on their skin microbiota.
Given the successful identification of microbiome biomarkers in human, animal, and environmental settings [@doi:10.1128/JB.00542-10;@doi:10.1073/pnas.1606631113;@doi:10.3389/fenvs.2015.00084], the skin microbiome of tadpoles and frogs may represents an innovative biomarker approach to monitor environmental contaminants exposure

This work is part of the WEC project in which the response of pre-metamorphic tadpoles is measured to 3 different hormone treatments: Thyroxine (T4), triiodothyronine (T3), and 17-beta-estradiol (E2). 
T4 is the precursor to the more bioactive thyroid hormone, T3. 
E2 here, acts a control group for hormone exposure, but is also used to monitor potential crosstalk between thyroid- and estrogen-mediated pathways.

