## Results {#results}

### Data Summary
A total of 341 samples, including negative controls (n=11), positive controls (n=10), swab (n=6) and glove (n=6) controls,  were sequenced in four sequencing experiments. 
Combined, there were 56 tank biofilm microbiome samples, 79 natural metamorphosis frog microbiomes and 96 hormone exposed frog microbiomes. 
Across all experiments, we produced 46.7million reads assigned into 19,850 amplicon sequencing variants (ASVs).
Both the negative and positive sequencing control produced taxa distributions as expected, with negative controls generally having reduced to zero number of reads compared to swabs (Fig. @fig:barplot_phylumall). 

### Lithobates catesbeianus skin microbiome is unique and distinct compared to it's environment.
Using NMDS and k-means clustering using bray-curtis distance measurements, the frog microbiomes are distinct from the controls and surrounding water (Fig. @fig:cluster_source). 
There exist a small overlap between tank water and frog skin communities. 
We note that the control samples as well as some skin samples had a low number of reads. 

### Characterization of Lithobates catesbeianus skin bacterial microbiome across life stages. 

Overall, nine phyla represented <98% of all bullfrog microbiomes (Fig. @fig:barplot_phylumnatural). 
Of the nine phyla, it can be classified into 25 genera that composed of >60% of the microbiomes, on average (Fig. @fig:barplot_genusnatural).
Proteobacteria, Verrucomicrobia, and Bacteroidetes were the three most abundance phyla. 

In frogs that metamorphized naturally, the microbiome changes significantly with stages of development. 
Furthermore, the microbiomes of tadpoles and froglets are distinct from each other (Fig. @fig:cluster_natural). 
The abundance of Verrucomicrobia increases with developmental stage, with a remarkable 3-fold increase between froglets and tadpoles.
This increase is corresponded to a significant (q<0.01) decrease in Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, Fusobacteria, and most abundantly, Proteobacteria (Fig. @fig:barplot_phylumnatural, Fig. @fig:difexpr_phylumnatural).
The increase in Verrucomicrobia is composed of an increase in the order Verrucomicrobiales.
A small proportion (<15%) of Verrumicrobiales were classified to the genus Akkermansia. 
However, the ASVs identified did not provide the resolution necessary for the further classification of ASVs associated with Verrucomibiales.  
Other genera that had a >2fold increase were Tumebacillus, Duganella, Janthinobacterium, Massilia, and Novosphingobium.
Of the decreasing taxa, Cellulosilyticum, Romboutsia, and Cetobacterium were the genera that exhibited a >2fold decrease in abundance.
Lastly, we note a significant decrease in alpha diversity of froglets compared to tadpoles as measured by the Shannon index (Fig. @fig:alphadiv_natural).

By contrast, hormone exposed tadpoles did not exihibit a strong shift in their microbiomes through out their developmental stage.
Bacteroidetes, and Proteobacteria were again the dominant phyla similar to the microbiomes of tadpoles that underwent natural metamorphosis. 
Regardless of hormone (i.e. T3, T4, or cocktail), there were no significant changes in phyla composition (Fig. @fig:barplot_phylumhormone). 
There were also no change in alpha diversity as the tadpoles age (Fig. @fig:alphadiv_hormone). 

The sex of the frog had no significant impact on the community composition. (Fig. @fig:cluster_sex)
The weight and length of tadpoles of naturally developing, but not hormone exposed, frogs correlated with shifts in taxa abundances of the microbiomes. 

### The effect of T3 and T4 Exposure on the Lithobates catesbeianus skin microbiome. 

The skin microbiome were analysed based on samples exposed to cocktail, T3 or T4 across premet, and promet life stages. 

No significant changes in taxa abundance identified in tadpole microbiomes exposed to the cocktail, T3 and T4 hormones with respect to their control. 
NMDS plots calculated using the Bray-Curtis distance did not produce any clustering between control and exposure conditions (Fig. @fig:cluster_exposure)
However, there was a signficantly increased alpha diversity of T4 exposed tadpoles (Fig. @fig:alphadiv_t4).

#### Meta-transcriptomic analysis of E2, T3, and T4 Exposure

From the counts generated from the tank water data set, primarily proteobacteria and Bacteroidetes were counted, specifically bacteria from the flavobacterium genus.
Assigning bacterial taxonomies to de novo assembled transcripts from the TF and OE of tadpoles from the E2, T4, and T3 exposure sets revealed the presence of mostly bacteria from the proteobacteria phylum, with a smaller portion of bacterial transcripts mapping to gram positive phyla actinobacteria and firmicutes in both tissues (table 2, table 4). 
The OE had more bacterial transcripts that were significantly represented compared to the TF. 
Agrobacterium and Pseudomonas species exhibited the most varieties of transcripts of all present species.
TFT3 exposure resulted in the differential expression of T226 16S ribosomal RNA that is assigned to Micrococcus luteus (Table 3). 
The M. luteus transcript exhibits a 6.5-fold change in transcript abundance (table 9). The M. luteus transcript exhibits similarity to an M. luteus 16S rRNA gene (Accession MT611279). 
No other treatments results in differential expression of other bacterial transcripts.
Viral taxonomies were also assigned to assembled transcripts. 
There are fewer viral transcript assignments than bacterial in both tissues (table 5, table 7). 
The distribution of viral families assigned transcripts is very similar between tissues, with the majority belonging to Iridoviridae, followed by Adenoviridae, and Siphoviridae. Three viral species were commonly assigned to transcripts from both tissues: proteus phage VB PmiS-Isfahan, Frog virus 3, and human mastadenovirus C.
In the TF, T4 exposure results in the differential expressed of a single transcript assigned to the Frog virus 3 species (Table 7) with a 5.5-fold change of transcript abundance (table 13). 
Through a blastn query, this transcript is confirmed to encode for a hypothetical protein FV3gorf78L from the Frog virus 3 genome which contains an RNA recognition motif. 
T3 and E2 exposure did not result in the differential expression of any viral assigned transcripts in the TF.
In the OE, both T4 and T3 exposure results in the differential expression of viral assigned transcripts from Proteus phage VB_PmiS-Isfahan, however, these are annotated with the human mitochondrial genome and are likely not viral transcripts (table 14-17).
No significant results were found from filtering with the other RefSeq databases with Kraken2.
